.. _share:

Share
======

Any visualization is useful only when you are able to share it. rCharts
tries to make it really easy to share the visualizations you create. Let
us first create a simple interactive scatterplot to illustrate the
different sharing mechanisms built into rCharts

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. sourcecode:: r

    library(rCharts)
    r1 <- rPlot(mpg ~ wt, data = mtcars, type = 'point')

Save
~~~~

You can save your chart using the ``save`` method. The additional
parameters passed to the ``save`` method determine how the js/css assets
of the javascript visualization library are served. You can now email
your visualization or embed it in a blog post as an iframe.

.. sourcecode:: r

    # link js/css assets from an online cdn
    r1$save('mychart1.html', cdn = TRUE)
    # create standalone chart with all assets included directly in the html file
    r1$save('mychart2.html', standalone = TRUE)

Publish
~~~~~~~

Sometimes, you may want to directly publish the visualization you
created, without having to bother with the steps of saving it and then
uploading it. rChart has you covered here, and provides a ``publish``
method that combines these two steps. It currently supports publishing
to `RPubs <http://rpubs.com>`_ and `Gist <http://gist.github.com>`_ and I expect to add more providers over
time.

.. sourcecode:: r

    # the host defaults to 'gist'
    r1$publish("My Chart")
    r1$publish("My Chart", host = 'rpubs')

Publishing a chart saves the html in a temporary file, uploads it to the
specified ``host``, and returns a link to where the chart can be viewed.
There are many gist viewers out there, and rCharts uses a custom viewer
http://rcharts.io/viewer, designed specifically for rCharts, and is a
modified version of another excellent gist viewer
http://www.pagist.info/. Another popular gist viewer is
http://blocks.org, built by Mike Bostock, the creator of
`d3.js <http://d3js.org>`__.

If you wish to simply **update** a visualization you have already
created and shared, you can pass the gist/rpubs id to the ``publish``
method, and it will update instead of uploading it as a brand new chart.

.. sourcecode:: r

    r1$publish("My Chart", id = 9253202)

While using a provider like `Gist <http://gist.github.com>`__ that
allows multiple files to be uploaded, you can use the ``extras``
argument to add additional files that you want to upload. This is
especially useful, if you want to provide a ``README.md`` or upload
external assets like js/css/json files that are required for your chart
to render.

.. sourcecode:: r

    r1$publish("My Chart", id = 9253202, extras = "README.md")

Embed
~~~~~

RMarkdown
^^^^^^^^^



Suppose you wish to embed a visualization created using rCharts in an
`Rmd <https://www.rstudio.com/ide/docs/r_markdown>`__ document.

**IFrame**

One way to do this would be to use the ``save`` method to save the
chart, and then embed it as an iframe. rCharts saves you the steps by
allowing you to use the ``show`` method and specify that you want the
chart to be embedded as an ``iframe``.

We need to set the chunk options ``comment = NA`` and
``results = "asis"`` so that the resulting html is rendered asis and not
marked up (which is the default in knitr).

.. sourcecode:: r

    ```{r results = "asis", comment = NA}
    r1$show('iframe', cdn = TRUE)
    ```

If you have several charts in your Rmd document, you can set these
options globally in a setup chunk. Make sure to set ``cache = F`` for
this chunk so that it is always run.

.. sourcecode:: r

    ```{r setup, cache = F}
    options(rcharts.mode = 'iframe', rcharts.cdn = TRUE)
    knitr::opts_chunk$set(results = "asis", comment = NA)
    ```

You can now rewrite the earlier sourcecode chunk simply as

.. sourcecode:: r

    ```{r}
    r1
    ```

I prefer this style when writing, since it allows a user to simply copy
paste sourcecode from the html and run it in their R console.

**IFrame Inline**

The ``iframe`` mode requires users to upload the additional chart html
files along with their document. This introduces additional steps, and
in the case of some providers like Rpubs, is not even possible. Hence,
rCharts provides an additional mode named ``iframesrc`` that embeds the
chart as an inline iframe, which makes your document self contained.


.. sourcecode:: r

    ```{r results = "asis", comment = NA}
    r1$show('iframesrc', cdn  = TRUE)
    ```

This option has the advantage of keeping the html standalone, but
isolating the chart from the html on the page, thereby avoiding css and
js conflicts. However, this feature is `not supported by IE and
Opera <http://www.w3schools.com/tags/att_iframe_srcdoc.asp>`__.

**Inline**

A third option to embed an rCharts created visualization is to inline
the chart directly. Note that you need to add ``include_assets = TRUE``,
only the first time you are creating a chart using a specific library.

.. sourcecode:: r

    ```{r chart3}
    r1$show('inline', include_assets = TRUE, cdn = TRUE)
    ```

This approach should work in all browsers, however, it is susceptible to
css and js conflicts.

If you are using `Slidify <http://slidify.github.io>`_ to author your Rmd, then you can specify the charting library as ``ext_widgets`` in the YAML front matter. Here is a minimal reproducible example.

.. literalinclude:: _downloads/deck.txt
   :emphasize-lines: 4


Note how you did not have to specify ``include_assets = TRUE``. This is because slidify uses the ``ext_widgets`` property to automatically pick up the required assets and include them in the header of the resulting html page.

Shiny
^^^^^

It is easy to embed visualizations created using rCharts into a `Shiny <http://rstudio.com/shiny>`_ application. The main idea is to make use of the utility functions :func:`renderChart` and :func:`showOutput`. The shiny application created using the code below, can be seen `here <http://glimmer.rstudio.com/rChartsApp>`_

.. sourcecode:: r
   :emphasize-lines: 4, 29

    ## server.r
    require(rCharts)
    shinyServer(function(input, output) {
      output$myChart <- renderChart({
        names(iris) = gsub("\\.", "", names(iris))
        p1 <- rPlot(input$x, input$y, data = iris, color = "Species", 
          facet = "Species", type = 'point')
        p1$addParams(dom = 'myChart')
        return(p1)
      })
    })

    ## ui.R
    require(rCharts)
    shinyUI(pageWithSidebar(
      headerPanel("rCharts: Interactive Charts from R using polychart.js"),

      sidebarPanel(
        selectInput(inputId = "x",
         label = "Choose X",
         choices = c('SepalLength', 'SepalWidth', 'PetalLength', 'PetalWidth'),
         selected = "SepalLength"),
        selectInput(inputId = "y",
          label = "Choose Y",
          choices = c('SepalLength', 'SepalWidth', 'PetalLength', 'PetalWidth'),
          selected = "SepalWidth")
      ),
      mainPanel(
        showOutput("myChart", "polycharts")
      )
    ))


